INTRODUCTION

Data mining is the process of searching, analyzing and processing large sets of data that have been collected through various sources. In today’s world, these sources have become more and more progressive such as mobile data, software logs, remote sensors etc. Large data sets collected are called big data.
Market Basket Analysis (MBA) is an extremely valuable application of data mining. The term ‘market basket’ basically means associating a few market items together and determining what items are usually bought together. It clubs items that are most likely to be bought together. Analysis of market basket establishes a connection between various datasets. It is sometimes also called Product association analysis.
The main aim of doing this to help the retail industry understand various patterns and customer behavior. It can help the market owner plan their market strategies, promotional items, placement of products. This in return increases their sales and profitability of the business. A good example of this would be online shopping. When items are being sold online, transaction records are simultaneously being created, these records then after analyzing and processing help in adding to the suggestions column usually found at the bottom of most online shopping websites. 
The target audience of this study would be small and big retail stores, supermarkets etc. With the data extracted and through data mining algorithms, they will be able to identify what the customers buy frequently, what offers may be put up, how to attract more customers and to keep the existing ones loyal. They would also be able to develop an idea as to what items are usually bought together enabling them to set their offers so as to increase sales. This would also help them in arranging the aisles at their supermarket so as to make ot easier to shop for the customers and increase customer satisfaction. 
There are various methods to do this some of them are Association, in-memory computation framework, FP-Bonsai, Apriori etc. The most common one being Association rule in which a transaction record is used. This lists all the items brought by customers in a single purchase. Through this, items that are frequently got together can be paired together. This gives us an understanding of how the customer thinks and makes it further easier for the retailer to sale their items.
